.Dd September 15, 2019
.Dt NSRLLOOKUP 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm nsrllookup
.Nd command-line interface to NSRL servers
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm nsrllookup
.Op Fl b
.Op Fl h
.Op Fl k
.Op Fl p Ar port
.Op Fl s Ar server
.Op Fl u
.Op Fl v
.Sh DESCRIPTION
nsrllookup is a tool for interacting with NSRL query servers,
supporting version 2 of the NSRL query protocol.
.Pp
It is normally used as a filter in a chain of tools, not as
a standalone program.
.Pp
By default it attempts to communicate with a server running on
.Ic nsrllookup.com
at port 9120.  This may be overruled with the
.Ar server
and
.Ar port
arguments.
.Sh OPTIONS
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl b
show the URL for the bug tracker
.It Fl h
print a summary of nsrllookup usage, then exit
.It Fl k
only show matching ("known") files
.It Fl p Ar port
specify what port to query on (default: 9120)
.It Fl s Ar server
specify an NSRL query server (default:
.Ic nsrllookup.com
)
.It Fl u
only show non-matching ("unknown") files
.It Fl v
show version information
.El
.Sh EXAMPLES
To check
.Ic FILENAME
to see if it's listed in NIST's NSRL RDS, querying against the
publicly-available
.Ic nsrllookup.com
server:
.Pp
md5sum
.Ic FILENAME
| nsrllookup -k
.Pp
If the hash is present, the output from md5sum will be
displayed to standard output: otherwise, it's suppressed.
.Pp
To recursively check
.Ic PATH
against a query server running on
.Ic nsrllookup.com
, writing out all matching files:
.Pp
md5deep -r
.Ic PATH
| nsrllookup -k
.Pp
(Please note that you will need the md5sum and/or md5deep tools installed to use these examples.)
.Sh SEE ALSO
nsrlsvr (1)
.Sh ENCODINGS
nsrllookup tries to be encoding-agnostic.  The Windows-1252 character set and the Latin-1 subset of UTF-8 are known to work fairly well: UTF-16 is known to sometimes make it blow up.
.Sh BUGS
nsrllookup doesn't always play nice with UTF-16.
.Sh AUTHOR
Robert J. Hansen <rob@hansen.engineering>
