.Dd January 30, 2012
.Dt NSRLLOOKUP 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm nsrllookup
.Nd command-line interface to NSRL servers
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm nsrllookup
.Op Fl h
.Op Fl k
.Op Fl u
.Op Fl v
.Op Fl S
.Op Fl K Ar known_file
.Op Fl U Ar unknown_file
.Op Fl s Ar server
.Op Fl p Ar port
.Sh DESCRIPTION
nsrllookup is a tool for interacting with NSRL query servers,
supporting version 2 of the NSRL query protocol.
.Pp
It is normally used as a filter in a chain of tools, not as
a standalone program.
.Pp
By default it attempts to communicate with a server running on
.Ic localhost
at port 9120.  This may be overruled with the 
.Ar server
and
.Ar port
arguments.
.Sh OPTIONS
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl h
print a summary of nsrllookup usage, then exit
.It Fl k
only show matching ("known") files
.It Fl u
only show non-matching ("unknown") files
.It Fl v
show version information
.It Fl S
attempt to query the server's status (not all servers support queries)
.It Fl K Ar known-file
write matching hashes to 
.Ar known-file
.It Fl U Ar unknown-file
write non-matching hashes to
.Ar unknown-file
.It Fl s Ar server
specify an NSRL query server (default: localhost)
.It Fl p Ar port
specify what port to query on (default: 9120)
.El
.Sh EXAMPLES
To check 
.Ic FILENAME
to see if it's listed in NIST's NSRL RDS, querying against the publicly-available nsrl.kyr.us server:
.Pp
md5sum 
.Ic FILENAME 
| nsrllookup -k -s nsrl.kyr.us
.Pp
If the hash is present, the output from md5sum will be 
displayed to standard output: otherwise, it's suppressed.
.Pp
To recursively check
.IC PATH
against a query server running on localhost, writing all matches to known.txt and all non-matches to unknown.txt:
.Pp
md5deep -r 
.Ic PATH
| nsrllookup -K known.txt -U unknown.txt
.Pp
(Please note that you will need the md5sum and/or md5deep tools installed to use these examples.)
.Sh SEE ALSO
nsrlsvr(1)
.Sh ENCODINGS
nsrllookup tries to be encoding-agnostic.  The Windows-1252 character set and the Latin-1 subset of UTF-8 are known to work fairly well: UTF-16 is known to sometimes make it blow up.
.Sh BUGS
nsrllookup doesn't always play nice with UTF-16.
.Sh AUTHOR
Robert J. Hansen <rjh@secret-alchemy.com>
